week-4/README.md, before:

# Week 4

## References:

This week I'll aim to get the trees mapped, and allow a user to click on a tree to see the info.

I clicked a lot of links:

https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/getting-started-with-d3-js-maps-e721ba6d8560

https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/d3js/create-svg-elements-in-d3js

https://www.d3indepth.com/geographic/

has a bounding box:

https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/search.php?city=Lancaster&state=Pennsylvania&format=jsonv2

https://bl.ocks.org/Andrew-Reid/4f3e3cdf708036ed076075b937357826

https://gist.github.com/JamesChevalier/b861388d35476cee4fcc3626a60af60f

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62333032/lets-make-a-topojson-map-and-view-it-with-d3-js

https://github.com/topojson/topojson

https://github.com/d3/d3-geo#projections

https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/d3js/create-svg-elements-in-d3js

http://using-d3js.com/05_01_paths.html

https://www.d3indepth.com/geographic/

https://bost.ocks.org/mike/map/

https://analyticsindiamag.com/a-map-to-perfection-using-d3-js-to-make-beautiful-web-maps/

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47750168/d3-us-map-zoom-on-load-to-marked-state

https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Overpass_API/Overpass_API_by_Example

https://codepen.io/andybarefoot/pen/oBQKOb

https://medium.com/@andybarefoot/making-a-map-using-d3-js-8aa3637304ee

i think that part of the reason that my map is so weird, is because lancaster2.geojson includes data from a bunch of streets with lancaster somewhere in the record! duh!

this was the key! i noticed it, because when I googled the first street it was in the Uk! Then I looked a bit closer at the data, and looked at it overpass-turbo.edu, and zoomed out, and noticed that there were dots (kind of like mine) in several states.

https://www.google.com/search?q=Preston+Lancaster+Road&rlz=1C5CHFA_enUS978US978&sxsrf=ALiCzsZEkTc_keSLLI8RLEGawvY6NIyvWg%3A1664419569905&ei=8QY1Y_btNubl5NoPnpqUoAo&ved=0ahUKEwi2quKJ_rj6AhXmMlkFHR4NBaQQ4dUDCA4&uact=5&oq=Preston+Lancaster+Road&gs_lcp=Cgxnd3Mtd2l6LXNlcnAQAzIFCAAQgAQyBggAEB4QFjIGCAAQHhAWMgYIABAeEBYyBggAEB4QFjIGCAAQHhAWMgYIABAeEBYyBggAEB4QFjIGCAAQHhAWMggIABAeEBYQCjoJCAAQHhCwAxAHOgcIABAeELADOgkIABAeELADEAhKBAhBGAFKBAhGGABQuAVYuAVgyQhoAXAAeACAAUqIAUqSAQExmAEAoAEByAEKwAEB&sclient=gws-wiz-serp

I tried a bit more to get a query that would work in openmaps, and really was struggling.

so then i decided to do a quick google of geojson data in lancaster, and bingo! i found so much stuff!

https://mapservices.pasda.psu.edu/server/rest/services/pasda/LancasterCounty/MapServer

https://www.pasda.psu.edu/uci/DataSummary.aspx?dataset=1267

https://www.pasda.psu.edu/

this one called "Lancaster County - Road Centerlines and Types"
https://www.pasda.psu.edu/uci/DataSummary.aspx?dataset=1270

is up-to-date and seems to have road centerlines, which im assuming is the central line of the road... rather than having one record for each side of the street.

the only issue so far is that this includes all of lancaster county, rather than just the city. my idea for getting around this (if i cant find a way to query/filter the data) is to set the fitExtent (?) on the projection so that the center is at of the city, and is quite zoomed in so the rest of the county isnt really show. and then maybe have the outer edges become less opaque

some suggestions from class:
https://www.mapbox.com/

other stuff from class, not about my project:
https://neal.fun/deep-sea/
http://therapboard.com/

Other Map Tutorials that I haven't look at yet:

- https://bl.ocks.org/john-guerra/43c7656821069d00dcbc

## Documentation for only displaying Lancaster City instead of all of Lancaster County

The LancasterCounty data structure looks like this:

```json
{
  "type": "FeatureCollection",
  "features": [
    {
      "id": 0,
      "type": "Feature"
      "geometry": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
          [-76.31711164650034, 40.02758490370382]
          [-76.3166400867301, 40.02729589257975]
        ]
      },
      "properties": {
        "LTWNSH": "LANCASTER CITY",
        "RTWNSH": "LANCASTER CITY"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

So, I wondered if I would be able to filter the data on the feature's LTWNSH or RTWNSH property equaling "LANCASTER CITY". o

don't know the differenence between the two 

LTWNSH had 2766
LTNRSH had 2778

but the different in the mapping btween one or another, or both didnt seem too different (schreenshot)

Commit message:

Add some notes about how/when to filter the data

week-4/README.md, after:

# Week 4

## References:

This week I'll aim to get the trees mapped, and allow a user to click on a tree to see the info.

I clicked a lot of links:

https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/getting-started-with-d3-js-maps-e721ba6d8560

https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/d3js/create-svg-elements-in-d3js

https://www.d3indepth.com/geographic/

has a bounding box:

https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/search.php?city=Lancaster&state=Pennsylvania&format=jsonv2

https://bl.ocks.org/Andrew-Reid/4f3e3cdf708036ed076075b937357826

https://gist.github.com/JamesChevalier/b861388d35476cee4fcc3626a60af60f

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62333032/lets-make-a-topojson-map-and-view-it-with-d3-js

https://github.com/topojson/topojson

https://github.com/d3/d3-geo#projections

https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/d3js/create-svg-elements-in-d3js

http://using-d3js.com/05_01_paths.html

https://www.d3indepth.com/geographic/

https://bost.ocks.org/mike/map/

https://analyticsindiamag.com/a-map-to-perfection-using-d3-js-to-make-beautiful-web-maps/

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47750168/d3-us-map-zoom-on-load-to-marked-state

https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Overpass_API/Overpass_API_by_Example

https://codepen.io/andybarefoot/pen/oBQKOb

https://medium.com/@andybarefoot/making-a-map-using-d3-js-8aa3637304ee

i think that part of the reason that my map is so weird, is because lancaster2.geojson includes data from a bunch of streets with lancaster somewhere in the record! duh!

this was the key! i noticed it, because when I googled the first street it was in the Uk! Then I looked a bit closer at the data, and looked at it overpass-turbo.edu, and zoomed out, and noticed that there were dots (kind of like mine) in several states.

https://www.google.com/search?q=Preston+Lancaster+Road&rlz=1C5CHFA_enUS978US978&sxsrf=ALiCzsZEkTc_keSLLI8RLEGawvY6NIyvWg%3A1664419569905&ei=8QY1Y_btNubl5NoPnpqUoAo&ved=0ahUKEwi2quKJ_rj6AhXmMlkFHR4NBaQQ4dUDCA4&uact=5&oq=Preston+Lancaster+Road&gs_lcp=Cgxnd3Mtd2l6LXNlcnAQAzIFCAAQgAQyBggAEB4QFjIGCAAQHhAWMgYIABAeEBYyBggAEB4QFjIGCAAQHhAWMgYIABAeEBYyBggAEB4QFjIGCAAQHhAWMggIABAeEBYQCjoJCAAQHhCwAxAHOgcIABAeELADOgkIABAeELADEAhKBAhBGAFKBAhGGABQuAVYuAVgyQhoAXAAeACAAUqIAUqSAQExmAEAoAEByAEKwAEB&sclient=gws-wiz-serp

I tried a bit more to get a query that would work in openmaps, and really was struggling.

so then i decided to do a quick google of geojson data in lancaster, and bingo! i found so much stuff!

https://mapservices.pasda.psu.edu/server/rest/services/pasda/LancasterCounty/MapServer

https://www.pasda.psu.edu/uci/DataSummary.aspx?dataset=1267

https://www.pasda.psu.edu/

this one called "Lancaster County - Road Centerlines and Types"
https://www.pasda.psu.edu/uci/DataSummary.aspx?dataset=1270

is up-to-date and seems to have road centerlines, which im assuming is the central line of the road... rather than having one record for each side of the street.

the only issue so far is that this includes all of lancaster county, rather than just the city. my idea for getting around this (if i cant find a way to query/filter the data) is to set the fitExtent (?) on the projection so that the center is at of the city, and is quite zoomed in so the rest of the county isnt really show. and then maybe have the outer edges become less opaque

some suggestions from class:
https://www.mapbox.com/

other stuff from class, not about my project:
https://neal.fun/deep-sea/
http://therapboard.com/

Other Map Tutorials that I haven't look at yet:

- https://bl.ocks.org/john-guerra/43c7656821069d00dcbc

## Documentation for only displaying Lancaster City instead of all of Lancaster County

The LancasterCounty data structure looks like this:

```json
{
  "type": "FeatureCollection",
  "features": [
    {
      "id": 0,
      "type": "Feature"
      "geometry": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
          [-76.31711164650034, 40.02758490370382]
          [-76.3166400867301, 40.02729589257975]
        ]
      },
      "properties": {
        "LTWNSH": "LANCASTER CITY",
        "RTWNSH": "LANCASTER CITY"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

So, I wondered if I would be able to filter the data on the feature's LTWNSH or RTWNSH property equaling "LANCASTER CITY". o

don't know the differenence between the two

LTWNSH had 2766
LTNRSH had 2778

but the different in the mapping btween one or another, or both didnt seem too different (schreenshot)

I am currently using the filtered data for the city projection, and the full street data for the drawing, and get this result:
![or with trees](./or-with-trees.png)


This is what it looks like with the filtered data for both:
![filter for both](./filtered-for-both.png)

This is what it looks like with the full data for both:
![full for both](./full-data-for-both.png)
